Exercise 1.7: Finalizing Your Python Program
Learning Goals

●	Interact with a database using an object-relational mapper
●	Build your final command-line Recipe application


Reflection Questions

1.	What is an Object Relational Mapper and what are the advantages of using one?


                O.R.Ms are powerful tools used by developers to simplify database interactions. The need to
                write complex sql queries is abstracted away. The commands provided by the O.R.M are usually more
                in line with the language you are coding in. O.R.Ms will encapsulate data access information your 
                object model provides. This puts business logic/database operations together, which improves code 
                organization and readability. They make code reusable on commonly used databases, being bundled 
                within the model classes ready to adapt to a new situation. They speed up development speed with
                optimized queries and schemas automatically created. They align with O.O.P concepts and can make it 
                easier on the developer with familiar concepts. They will enforce data integrity and validation, with
                its included mechanisms. Handling one-to-many and many-to-many relationships(between entities) is 
                usually handled well by the O.R.Ms abilities/methods. Overall, O.R.Ms speed things up greatly and are 
                a great way to keep things organized/portable to other database management systems.


2.	By this point, you’ve finished creating your Recipe app. How did it go? What’s something in the app that you 
    did well with? If you were to start over, what’s something about your app that you would change or improve?


                I think it went well overall, as I did not really get to stuck on anything. Any errors or pitfalls I ran
                into that would crash the program i quickly resolved. Transitioning to using the O.R.M was fun, and
                It truly is a powerful tool. I tried not to be repetitve as possible, but still make the code readable.
                Making sure every input by the user would be checked for any issues, and prompt the user was important
                to me. I tried to have as many comments as I could on anything that may look complex. Importing the
                recipe_class seemed important to keep it easier to scroll through. Hopefully that was ok to do. Something
                I would try to improve if I spent additional time, is trying to cutdown on some of the queries and loops.
                Maybe it could be simplified to use less memory. Maybe some better naming conventions as well.


3.	Imagine you’re at a job interview. You’re asked what experience you have creating an app using Python. Taking 
    your work for this Achievement as an example, draft how you would respond to this question.


                In my advanced Python course from careerFoundry we built a recipe app. The app used a MySQL database and. 
                performed all C.R.U.D operations for recipes. The database was accessed through the sqlalchemy O.R.M,
                which was a very helpful tool for encapsulating the database requirements/business logic. The app was
                also thouroughly checked for errors or pitfalls that would cause any unexpected crashes. Try/Exception
                blocks were added throughout, and any invalid input would prompt the user accordingly, and return the user 
                to the main menu. Being as it was made with an O.R.M the code is highly reusable and can be prompted
                to most database management systems. Overall, the development process gave me a strong understanding
                of sqlalchemy, mysql, oop in Python, and error handling.

 
4.	You’ve finished Achievement 1! Before moving on to Achievement 2, take a moment to reflect on your learning in 
    the course so far: 

a.	What went well during this Achievement? 


                As someone who has already coded for about 3 1/2 years(regularly), I feel like i have benefited a lot 
                from taking the course. I would say the key things I have learned are better error handling, code 
                organization, and better knowledge of database interactions.


b.	What’s something you’re proud of? 


                Well I would have to say I am real impressed with sqlalchemy, it is much better than what I
                am use to(Entity Framework for C#). Seems way more helpful. I am proud I have learned about
                it.


c.	What was the most challenging aspect of this Achievement?


                Honestly writing out the learning-journal is the most challenging. I really try to be as clear
                and accurate as I can, and I tend to second guess myself a lot.


d.	Did this Achievement meet your expectations? Did it give you the confidence to start working with your new 
        Python skills?


                Yes, I believe the course material is great. It really builds on itself and the practice tasks 
                are very helpful in the progression through each task. Yes, I will be working with(and improving),
                my new Python skills as best i can.


e.	What’s something you want to keep in mind to help you do your best in Achievement 2?


                Make sure to stay focused and read the material as many times as it takes to soak it in.





Well done—you’ve now completed the Learning Journal for Achievement 1. As you’ll have seen, a little metacognition 
can go a long way!
