Exercise 1.5: Object-Oriented Programming in Python
Learning Goals

●	Apply object-oriented programming concepts to your Recipe app

Reflection Questions

1.	In your own words, what is object-oriented programming? What are the benefits of OOP?


        The main objective of OOP programming is to avoid repeating yourself. A lot of concepts can
        be abstacted into classes and reused later. For example: the string class(built-in class) in 
        python is commonly used, and has a lot of code abstracted away that you do not need to see. 
        You can just perform the class methods as needed, and using strings is a very common need. 
        This also protects the data within an object(encapsulates), as it can only be accessed through 
        the class methods. OOP allows for achieveing polymorphism and inheritance.  For example a base 
        class could be a vehicle. A plane could be a child class that inherits what is common for all 
        vehicles. If a plane inherits a method that is not completely correct for a plane, you can 
        override the method. This is what is known as polymorphism. Polymorphism can also be as simple 
        as having the same method in unrelated classes with different functionality. For example a plane 
        and a vehicle both have the noise method. They make two different noises so the noise method would 
        need to be overridden in the plane class. The benefits of applying oop concepts are infinite. 
        Abstracting commonly used code into classes will cut out major time, and the overall size of the 
        code base. Most concepts in OOP are based on limiting the amount of code you need to write, which 
        can also make your code less confusing.


2.	What are objects and classes in Python? Come up with a real-world example to illustrate how objects
    and classes work.


        An object is an instance of a class and an object is instantiated by the class(aka: the blue 
        print). In python all objects are class based, and everything is an object. Some classes are 
        pre-defined but with the infinite possibilites/needs it cannot define everything. The ability
        to create classes is a powerful way of customizing your needs into your own objects. Classes consist
        of attributes, methods, and class variables(shared data amongst all instantiated objects). Classes
        inherit from either the object class, or they can inherit from a base class(a class you made that is
        not a child class). A child class can achieve a form of polymorphism with base class methods 
        overridden. A real world example of a class would be a cake mold. The cake mold is not the cake 
        itself, but knows how to shape the cake. The cake mold does not always supply the ingredients, 
        but a class is not really responsible for that either. You could use different ingredients for the 
        cake mix or frosting. Classes can contain different data but the objects created could have many 
        differences. Any change you make to a cake mold will be common throughout all cakes. This is the 
        same with classes. If you change the class, all following objects will be affected. 


3.	In your own words, write brief explanations of the following OOP concepts; 100 to 200 words per 
    method is fine. 

        Inheritance Description: 

            Inheritance is the concept of using base(parent) class methods in a child class. You would
            achieve this by adding the base class in the parameters of the child class in Python. The 
            child class would then have access to all base class methods. It is a one way relationship
            from parent to child, meaning it cannot be the other way around. The methods from the
            base class do not need to be defined again in the child class. With inheritance you
            can create hierarchies(base class relationship to many subclasses(child classes)).
            for example: Weather is the base class. There are many types of weather such as, cloudy,
            sunny, storming, foggy, and raining. They would all share certain characteristics such as
            tempature and humidity, which you could establish in the base class(Weather).

        Polymorphism Description:

            Polymorphic behavior is the achieved in Python through having the same method name used in
            different classes. Having the same name of a method for different classes is not a problem.
            These methods can perform different operations. Another form of polymorphism is overriding
            a base classes implementation of a method. This is as simple as redefining the same method
            in a child class. Polymorphism follows the do not repeat yourself principles. You no longer
            have to name everything individually. For example: A plane and a helicopter both fly. It 
            would be a pain to have to come up with another word for fly, because a plane is already
            using it as a method. Plus odds are fly would be the same code in both methods for the plane
            and helicopter. Overall polymorphism is great for code reuse and the ability to change
            the same method across classes as needed.

        Operator Overloading Description:

            Operator overloading is the process of assigning common operator use in class methods. In 
            python you can define what to do if operations are performed on your objects. You would do 
            this by assigning a method name, with a keyword from python, in the class. For example: 
            'def __<<Python reserved keyword such as 'gt'(greater than)>>__()'. Now you can write 
            statements in the method to perform what you would expect is a specific operator was used. 
            In a custom defined class the compiler is unaware of what to do with basic operations such
            as: +, -, >, <, >=, <=, !=, __str__(), __add__(), __sub__(). The last three operators are 
            python reservered keywords for string representation, addition, and subtraction. Operator 
            overloading is another 'DRY' principle that allows for code reuse and customization. 
            Operator overloading is a powerful way to make your class objects flexible and customized 
            to your needs.    

